README.md, before:

**Speedtest.net Collector For InfluxDB and Grafana**
------------------------------

![Screenshot](https://puu.sh/tmfOA/b5576e88de.png)

This tool is a wrapper for speedtest-cli which allows you to run periodic speedtets and save the results to Influxdb 

## Configuration within config.ini

#### GENERAL
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Delay          |Delay between runs                                                                                                  |
#### INFLUXDB
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Address        |Delay between updating metrics                                                                                      |
|Port           |InfluxDB port to connect to.  8086 in most cases                                                                    |
|Database       |Database to write collected stats to                                                                                |
|Username       |User that has access to the database                                                                                |
|Password       |Password for above user                                                                                             |
#### SPEEDTEST
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Server         |Comma sperated list of servers.  Leave blank for auto                                                            |
#### LOGGING
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Level          |Set how verbose the console output is                                                           |



## Usage

Before the first use run pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Enter your desired information in config.ini 

Run influxspeedtest.py

**Custom Config File Name**

If you wish to use a config file by a different name set an ENV Variable called influxspeedtest.  The value you set will be the config file that's used. 
  

***Requirements***

Python 3+

You will need the influxdb library installed to use this - [Found Here](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-python)
You will need the speedtest-cli library installed to use this - [Found Here](https://github.com/sivel/speedtest-cli)

## Docker Setup

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

2. Make a directory to hold the config.ini file. Navigate to that directory and download the sample config.ini in this repo.
```bash
mkdir speedtest
curl -o speedtest/config.ini https://raw.githubusercontent.com/barrycarey/Speedtest-for-InfluxDB-and-Grafana/master/config.ini
cd speedtest
```

3. Modify the config file with your influxdb settings.
```bash
nano config.ini
```
Modify the 'Address =' line include the ip or hostname of your influxdb instance.
Example:
```bash
Address = 10.13.14.200
```

4. Run the container, pointing to the directory with the config file. This should now pull the image from Docker hub. You can do this by either running docker run or by using docker-compose.
 1. The docker run option.
```bash
docker run -d \
--name="speedtest" \
-v config.ini:/src/config.ini \
--restart="always" \
barrycarey/speedtest-for-influxdb-and-grafana
```
 2. The docker-compose option
 ```bash
 curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/barrycarey/Speedtest-for-InfluxDB-and-Grafana/master/docker-compose.yml docker-compose.yml
 docker-compose up -d
 ```

Commit message:

Added: initial support for mqtt Added: option to use mqtt or InfluxDB or both

README.md, after:

**Speedtest.net Collector For InfluxDB and MQTT**
------------------------------
Based on ![Barrycarey Code](https://github.com/barrycarey/Speedtest-for-InfluxDB-and-Grafana)

![Screenshot](https://puu.sh/tmfOA/b5576e88de.png)

This tool is a wrapper for speedtest-cli which allows you to run periodic speedtets and save the results to Influxdb 

## Configuration within config.ini

#### GENERAL
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Delay          |Delay between runs                                                                                                  |
#### INFLUXDB
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Use			|Set *True* to use InfluxDB, else *False*																			 |
|Address        |Server host of Influxdb server                                                                                      |
|Port           |InfluxDB port to connect to.  8086 in most cases                                                                    |
|Database       |Database to write collected stats to                                                                                |
|Username       |User that has access to the database                                                                                |
|Password       |Password for above user                                                                                             |
#### MQTT
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Use			|Set *True* to use MQTT, else *False*																				 |
|Address        |Server host of mqtt broker		                                                                                     |
|Port           |InfluxDB port to connect to.  8086 in most cases                                                                    |
|Client         |Client ID for mqtt broker			                                                                                 |
|Topic          |Topic to send message for mqtt broker			                                                                     |
|Username       |User that has access to the database *(not implemnted)*                                                             |
|Password       |Password for above user              *(not implemnted)*                                                             |
#### SPEEDTEST
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Server         |Comma sperated list of servers.  Leave blank for auto                                                            |
#### LOGGING
|Key            |Description                                                                                                         |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Level          |Set how verbose the console output is                                                           |



## Usage

Before the first use run pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Enter your desired information in config.ini 

Run influxspeedtest.py

**Custom Config File Name**

If you wish to use a config file by a different name set an ENV Variable called influxspeedtest.  The value you set will be the config file that's used. 
  

***Requirements***

Python 3+

You will need the influxdb library installed to use this - [Found Here](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-python)
You will need the speedtest-cli library installed to use this - [Found Here](https://github.com/sivel/speedtest-cli)

## Docker Setup

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

2. Make a directory to hold the config.ini file. Navigate to that directory and download the sample config.ini in this repo.
```bash
mkdir speedtest
curl -o speedtest/config.ini https://raw.githubusercontent.com/barrycarey/Speedtest-for-InfluxDB-and-Grafana/master/config.ini
cd speedtest
```

3. Modify the config file with your influxdb settings.
```bash
nano config.ini
```
Modify the 'Address =' line include the ip or hostname of your influxdb instance.
Example:
```bash
Address = 10.13.14.200
```

4. Run the container, pointing to the directory with the config file. This should now pull the image from Docker hub. You can do this by either running docker run or by using docker-compose.
 1. The docker run option.
```bash
docker run -d \
--name="speedtest" \
-v config.ini:/src/config.ini \
--restart="always" \
barrycarey/speedtest-for-influxdb-and-grafana
```
 2. The docker-compose option
 ```bash
 curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/barrycarey/Speedtest-for-InfluxDB-and-Grafana/master/docker-compose.yml docker-compose.yml
 docker-compose up -d
 ```
